RILEY MATTHEWS
FROM GREENWICH VILLAGE,
NEW YORK CITY,
THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA,
THE CONTINENT
OF NORTH AMERICA,
WESTERN HEMISPHERE,
THE EARTH,
THE SOLAR SYSTEM,
THE UNIVERSE.
THE MIND OF GOD.
AND IN THE MIDDLE
OF ALL OF IT,
IS JOHN QUINCY ADAMS
MIDDLE SCHOOL,
ME AND MY FRIENDS,
BECAUSE WE ARE
THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE.
AT LEAST,
THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT.
WHO'S READY
FOR A BRAND NEW YEAR?
WHY ARE YOU STILL IN BED?
IS HE GONNA
BE MY TEACHER?
NO. WE ARE NOT
DOING THAT AGAIN.
THAT WAS CRAZY.
NEW YEAR, NEW TEACHER,
GET EXCITED,
BECAUSE YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS
ARE THE KINGS
OF MIDDLE SCHOOL NOW.
FIRST DAY OF THE NEW YEAR!
-WHY ARE YOU STILL IN BED?
-ARE YOU GONNA BE MY TEACHER?
NO! YOUR MOTHER AND I
WENT THROUGH THAT
WITH MR. FEENY.
YEAH, OUR TEACHER
FROM SIXTH GRADE TO COLLEGE.
-HOW COULD THAT HAPPEN?
-IN AN UNEXPECTED...
BUT COMPLETELY
BELIEVABLE WAY...
-EVERY YEAR.
-(mouths)
WHAT UP, LOSERS?
NO, NO, NO!
NO DOING THAT, GIRLS. SCHOOL!
WHO'S GONNA BE
MY TEACHER?
YOUR TEACHER?
WHOEVER LOSES.
-I DON'T BELIEVE YOU.
-I'M TELLING YOU, GIRLS,
I'M GONNA BE
TEACHING YOUR LIVES
TO A WHOLE NEW GROUP
OF STUDENTS!
DO YOU BELIEVE HIM?
I CAN'T EVEN BELIEVE
WE'RE STARTING OFF
THE NEW YEAR
WITHOUT FIRST
TALKING ABOUT HOW WHEN
WE WERE ON THE SUBWAY
-AND YOU TOOK LUCAS
BY THE FACE--
-(laughs)
WE... ARE NOT
TALKING ABOUT THAT!
WE'RE KINGS.
WE'RE KINGS, MATTHEWS.
YOU DON'T GET TO TELL US
WHAT TO DO ANYMORE.
-GET OUT.
-OKAY, BUT THAT WAS
THE LAST ONE.
DAD, YOU HAVE TO LET US LEARN
HOW TO WALK THROUGH LIFE
ON OUR OWN TWO FEET.
HMM, YOU THINK
THEY'LL BE BACK?
NO, I THINK
THEY'RE GONNA GO WITH THIS.
Maya and Riley:
OW. OW. OW. OW.
AH.
HELLO!
IT IS US, THE KINGS.
HEY, LOOK AT YOUR FEET.
THEY'RE NAKED!
EYES UP HERE, BUDDY.
HEY, RILEY, YOUR DAD
GONNA BE OUR TEACHER
AGAIN THIS YEAR?
-HE SAID HE'S NOT.
-I'LL BELIEVE IT WHEN
I DON'T SEE IT.
-OH, HI.
-HEY.
HI.
HEY.
ALL SUMMER.
-HEY.
-YOU HAVE TO TALK ABOUT IT.
-SHE'S RIGHT.
-HI.
-OH, HEY.
-(bell rings)
-GLAD WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
-YEAH, ME TOO.
-BYE.
-HEY.
HEY.
I KNOW
IT'S GONNA BE MY FATHER.
-I CAN'T LOOK.
-SCARED.
(sighs) OKAY.
-READY?
-QUICK PEEK.
ONE, TWO, THREE, GO.
-DID YOU SEE WHAT I SAW?
-OH YEAH.
-THEN WHY ARE
WE COVERING OUR EYES?
-BECAUSE IT'S GONNA GO AWAY,
I DON'T WANT IT TO GO AWAY,
AND IT'S GONNA GO AWAY.
Y-Y-Y-Y-AY!
THANK YOU.
GIRLS, TAKE A SEAT.
YOUR SEATS.
YEAH, OKAY,
LET'S GET STARTED.
BELGIUM, 1831.
Y-Y-Y-Y-AY!
THIS IS GONNA BE
OUR BEST YEAR EVER.
LET'S JUST GET UP, GO OVER,
AND LOOK AT HIM UP CLOSE.
YES?
-HE SAID, "YES."
-WHAT DO WE DO NOW?
I'M GONNA
TOUCH HIM ON THE FACE.
SIT DOWN!
YOU TWO STRIKE ME
AS A COUPLE OF GIRLS
WHO ARE USED
TO SPECIAL TREATMENT.
I DON'T KNOW
WHO YOUR LAST TEACHER WAS,
BUT I DON'T DO THAT.
FARKLE TIME, SIR?
GO AHEAD, KID.
YOU GOTTA FARKLE,
YOU GOTTA FARKLE.
-NO, THIS IS WHERE
HE TAKES OVER THE CLASS.
-OH. HE TAKES OVER THE CLASS,
YOU JUST TALK
WITHOUT RAISING YOUR HAND,
AND THESE TWO JUST DO
WHATEVER THEY WANT?
-YES?
-PRETTY MUCH, YEAH.
YOU KNOW WHAT?
I WANTED TO MAKE
A DIFFERENCE.
I WANTED TO SHAPE
YOUNG MINDS.
I WANTED
TO DEDICATE
MY ENTIRE LIFE
TO BEING AN INFLUENTIAL PERSON
WHO COMMANDS RESPECT!
I QUIT!
WHAT HAPPENS NOW?
YOU DID THIS!
(theme music playing)
♪ I'VE BEEN WAITING ♪
♪ FOR A DAY ♪
♪ LIKE THIS TO COME ♪
♪ STRUCK LIKE LIGHTNING ♪
♪ MY HEART'S ♪
♪ BEATING LIKE A DRUM ♪
♪ ON THE EDGE ♪
♪ OF SOMETHING WONDERFUL ♪
♪ FACE TO FACE ♪
♪ WITH CHANGES ♪
♪ WHAT'S IT ALL ABOUT? ♪
♪ LIFE IS CRAZY ♪
♪ BUT I KNOW ♪
♪ I CAN WORK IT OUT ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I GOT YOU ♪
♪ TO LIVE IT WITH ME ♪
♪ I FEEL ALL RIGHT ♪
♪ I'M GONNA TAKE ON THE WORLD ♪
♪ LIGHT UP THE STARS ♪
♪ I'VE GOT SOME PAGES TO TURN ♪
♪ I'M SINGING "GO-O-O" ♪
♪ OH OH OH OH ♪
♪ TAKE ON THE WORLD,
TAKE ON THE WORLD ♪
♪ TAKE ON THE WORLD ♪
♪ TAKE ON THE WORLD,
TAKE ON THE WORLD ♪
♪ TAKE ON THE WORLD. ♪
I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU'RE
GONNA BE MY FATHER AGAIN.
I SAID WHAT I SAID.
(mouths)
SERIOUSLY, MATTHEWS,
HOW'S THIS POSSIBLY HAPPENING?
I LIKE THAT IT'S HAPPENING.
THE OTHER GUY WOULDN'T
GIVE ME FARKLE TIME.
YEAH, HE DIDN'T LIKE IT AT ALL
WHEN WE TALKED.
IT'S TRUE. IT WAS LIKE
HE WANTED TO TALK ALL THE TIME.
I DON'T THINK HE KNEW
THAT HISTORY CLASS IS
SUPPOSED TO BE ABOUT OUR LIVES.
GALILEO.
EVERYONE BELIEVED
THAT THE SUN REVOLVED
AROUND THE EARTH...
EXCEPT FOR HIM.
EVERYONE THOUGHT THEY WERE
THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE
AND THAT EVERYTHING ELSE
CIRCLED AROUND THEM.
I KNOW SOMEBODY WHO CIRCLES
AROUND ME...
LITTLE TOO CLOSELY.
IS THAT WHAT YOU THINK'S
HAPPENING HERE, RILEY?
WE'RE IN THE EIGHTH GRADE NOW.
WE'RE A YEAR OLDER.
WE SHOULD BE ABLE TO HEAD OFF
-AND EXPLORE WITHOUT YOU.
-OKAY.
AND YOU GUYS THINK
YOU'RE READY?
-BORN READY.
-I'LL GET THERE!
YOU KNOW WHAT WE'RE GONNA DO,
MATTHEWS?
WE'RE GONNA TRANSFER OUT
OF HERE.
YEAH! YEAH?
-YEAH!
-LUCAS? FARKLE?
I DON'T THINK SO, RILEY.
-I REALLY LIKE HIM.
-I LIKE THE WAY HE TEACHES US,
I LIKE HOW
WE'RE TALKING RIGHT NOW,
AND HE DOESN'T STOP US
WHEN HE COULD IF HE WANTED TO.
(chuckles)
WAIT. WHY DON'T YOU STOP US?
YEAH, THAT'S INTERESTING,
ISN'T IT?
WELL, WE'RE DONE WITH YOU.
THANKS FOR THE LESSONS.
BUY YOURSELF SOMETHING PRETTY.
THANK YOU. OH, YOU'RE GONNA
NEED TRANSFER SLIPS.
I KNEW IT. HE'S GONNA
KEEP US HERE ON A TECHNICALITY.
GO AHEAD. BEAT IT.
LOOK AT US, RILES--
TWO YOUNG, INDEPENDENT WOMEN
TAKING THEIR OWN ROAD,
MAKING THEIR OWN WAY
WITH THEIR GUTS
AND THEIR BRAINS.
NEEDING NOTHING
FROM NOBODY
FROM THIS MOMENT ON!
HERE COMES FUNNY.
Riley and Maya:
Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow.
WE THINK WE'RE
THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE.
WE THINK EVERYTHING
REVOLVES AROUND US.
WE DEPEND ON THE SUN
FOR LIGHT, FOR WARMTH
EVERY MORNING, EVERY DAY.
AND WHEN IT'S GONE...
WE SLEEP...
TRUSTING THAT IN THE MORNING,
IT WILL ALWAYS COME BACK AGAIN.
AUGGIE.
OH, TOPANGA.
I'M DROPPING OFF
YOUR HELPER FOR THE DAY.
OH, GOOD, BIG,
STRONG MAN.
THAT'S ME!
MRS. SVORSKI USED TO ATTRACT
ALL THE BIG, STRONG MEN.
-YOU KNOW WHAT HAPPENED?
-WHAT?
-NO, I'M ASKING.
-(laughs) OKAY.
-OH, TOPANGA.
-YEAH?
WE NEED TALK.
YOU NEED TO SPEND
MORE TIME HERE.
WELL, MRS. SVORSKI,
HOW CAN I DO THAT?
MRS. SVORSKI,
TELL ME THE JOKE.
YOU QUIT SHARK LAWYER JOB,
AND YOU HELP TURN
THIS OLD-WORLD PLACE
INTO PLACE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.
BUT, THIS PLACE HAS
BEEN HERE FOR SO LONG!
IS TOO LONG, CREAKY.
IS TIRED.
KNOWS TIME IS UP. DING!
(laughs)
HOW CAN A BAKERY KNOW
THAT IT'S TIME IS UP?
IT KNOWS.
YOU MY PARTNER.
YOU BRING NEW LIFE.
I NEED YOU HERE.
MRS. SVORSKI!
TELL ME THE JOKE!
OKAY. IS NOT UKRAINIAN BAKERY.
-IS MY-KRAINIAN BAKERY.
-(laughing)
IT'S NOT FUNNY ANY MORE.
I KNOW. YOU THINK I NEED
LITTLE POOTCHKIE LIKE YOU
TO TELL ME JOKE ISN'T FUNNY?
IN OLD COUNTRY,
I HAD VARIETY SHOW.
IT WAS CALLED  MRS. SVORSKI'S
NOT SO HAPPY HOUR.
CAN YOU MAKE IT FUNNY
FOR ME AGAIN?
CAN YOU TELL
YOUR MOMMY WORLD IS CHANGING,
BAKERY NEED TO CHANGE, TOO.
-MOMMY, DO IT.
-(chuckles)
BUT, THIS PLACE
IS SO CHARMING.
IT'S SO... YOU.
YEAH, PEOPLE COME,
PEOPLE GO.
REMINDS ME OF SONG I SANG
AT END OF VARIETY SHOW.
OH, HERE WE GO.
♪ MAKE NEW FRIENDS,
TREAT THEM RIGHT ♪
♪ 'CAUSE YOU NEVER KNOW
WHO IS SPY ♪
OKAY, HOW'S THIS?
I'M GONNA SPEND
A LITTLE MORE TIME HERE
AND I'LL ALSO TRY TO FIND
SOMEONE TO HELP YOU OUT.
-ALSO, YOU CHANGE
NAME OF PLACE.
-WHAT?
NO, THIS PLACE
WILL ALWAYS BE  SVORSKI'S.
NO SUCH THING
AS "ALWAYS."
NOW PLACE  SVORSKI'S,
SOON PLACE  TOPANGA'S.
WORLD KEEP TURNING.
LIFE GO TO NEXT PEOPLE.
THIS HAS ALWAYS
BEEN GOOD IDEA.
-TRANSFER SLIP! POOM!
-AND POOM!
GREETINGS, NEW CLASSMATES.
RILEY MATTHEWS.
READY TO BE YOUR FRIEND.
'SUP? I'M MAYA.
YOU DON'T LOOK ME
IN THE EYES.
YOU TWO ARE LATE.
YOU TWO DON'T TALK.
YOU TWO
SIT THERE AND THERE.
-THERE AND THERE?
-(chuckles) NO, NO,
WE SIT TOGETHER...
IN THE MIDDLE
OF EVERYTHING.
-MOVE!
-(yelps)
BYE-BYE. (sobs)
EXCUSE ME.
WERE YOU TWO TRYING
TO HAVE A MOMENT?
YOU TWO DON'T GET
A MOMENT.
THIS IS NOT
THE  YOU TWO SHOW.
WE WERE TOLD IT WAS.
DURING THE GOLD RUSH,
PEOPLE LEFT THE COMFORT
OF THEIR OWN SURROUNDINGS
IN THE HOPE
OF FINDING GREATER RICHES
-IN AN INHOSPITABLE LAND.
-EXCUSE ME.
I WILL NOT WARN YOU AGAIN,
SIDE-PERSON!
(gasps)
YOU TELL HER, MOM.
-YOU FAILED ME.
-HA!
I SAW A GOAT GIVE BIRTH.
-HI.
WAIT A MINUTE!
STUDENTS NUMBER SIX AND SEVEN!
-THAT'S US?
-I BELIEVE SO.
-STUDENTS NUMBER SIX AND SEVEN?
-HEY, AT LEAST SHE'S
TALKING TO US.
YES?
GET OUT!
FINE!
WELL, AT LEAST WE GET
A DRAMATIC EXIT!
(footsteps in unison)
OH, COME ON!
HERE'S WHAT'S FUNNY.
IF YOU'RE STANDING
ON THE MOON,
YOU'D THINK THE EARTH
WAS REVOLVING AROUND YOU,
INSTEAD OF
THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
IT'S REALLY
ALL ABOUT PERSPECTIVE.
IT'S HARD NOT
TO BELIEVE THAT YOU'RE
THE CENTER OF EVERYTHING...
UNTIL SOMETHING
SHOWS YOU YOU'RE NOT.
OUR TOWN,
BY THORNTON WILDER.
MY FAVORITE PLAY.
YOU CAN'T TEACH ENGLISH.
-IT'S ALL ABOUT THE HISTORY...
-THERE YOU GO.
...OF PEOPLE
JUST LIKE YOU AND ME,
MOSTLY ABOUT NOT TAKING
WHAT WE HAVE FOR GRANTED,
AND A GIRL WHO GETS
A CHANCE TO TAKE ONE LOOK
AT THE LIFE
SHE LEFT BEHIND.
"JUST FOR A MOMENT NOW
WE'RE ALL TOGETHER.
"JUST FOR A MOMENT
WE'RE HAPPY.
"LET'S REALLY LOOK
AT ONE ANOTHER."
HELLO, GIRLS.
YOU'RE BACK?
YES.
-AS BAD AS THIS IS...
-EVERYTHING ELSE IS WORSE.
WELL, WELCOME BACK, LADIES.
YOU'RE JUST IN TIME
FOR TODAY'S LESSON.
-DID WE MISS ANYTHING?
-NAH. WE'RE JUST PUTTING
EVERYTHING BACK IN PLACE.
THE REAL LESSON
BEGINS RIGHT...
(snaps) NOW.
(sighs)
FACE IT, WE ARE NEVER
GOING TO ESCAPE HIM.
HE'S EVERYWHERE.
HOW ARE WE GOING
TO BE KINGS OF ANYTHING
-IF EVERYWHERE WE GO...
-WE MIGHT RUN INTO MY--
MOM? WHAT ARE
YOU DOING HERE?
IS MY-KRAINIAN BAKERY.
STILL NOT FUNNY.
NOT FUNNY?
I'LL TELL YOU
WHAT'S NOT FUNNY.
THIS PLACE LOSES $1.50
ON EVERY BULOCHKI.
I BAKE WITH LOVE.
HOW CAN YOU PUT
PRICE ON LOVE?
(chuckles)
WATCH ME.
OOH! KA-CHING!
BAKERY WINDOW.
BAKERY WINDOW RIGHT NOW.
(laughing)
THAT'S NICE.
SO, YOUR DAD'S AT SCHOOL,
YOUR MOM'S AT OUR HANGOUT.
-THAT'S NICE.
-YOU'RE LAUGHING AT ME?
INSIDE,
I'M CRYING SO HARD.
AUGGIE,
THIS IS FOR YOU.
IS FLOUR SHAKER
FROM UKRAINE.
ANTIQUE, LIKE ME.
YOU TAKE NOW.
YOU ARE LITTLE BAKER.
WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH IT?
KEEP SAFE,
TREASURE ALWAYS.
VERY IMPORTANT
WHAT IN THERE.
-THANK YOU, MRS. SVORSKI.
OH, THANK YOU, TOPANGA...
AND AUGGIE.
I CAN'T ESCAPE THEM, MAYA.
MY-- MY PARENTS
ARE CONSTANTLY CIRCLING ME...
LIKE PLANETS.
HELLO.
RILEY. (chuckles)
I HAVEN'T SEEN YOU
IN 20 MINUTES.
DO YOU MISS ME?
'CAUSE I MISSED YOU.
(groans)
AUGGIE, COME HERE.
I MISS YOU TOO, BUD.
MRS. SVORSKI.
I HAVE SOMEONE WHO I THINK
CAN BE THE PERFECT MANAGER
FOR WHEN I CAN'T BE
AT THE BAKERY.
THIS PERSON KNOW WAY
AROUND FOOD GAME?
ABSOLUTELY.
SHE'S ALSO VERY COLORFUL.
SHE REALLY GETS
INTO WHATEVER SHE'S DOING.
-SOUNDS LIKE GOOD WOMAN.
-MMM.
OH! SORRY I'M LATE.
(Ukrainian accent)
MY DONKEY DIED ON WAY HERE.
OH.
SMELLS LIKE BEING BACK
IN KITCHEN IN UKRAINE.
WAITING FOR TATO
TO COME HOME,
HOPING HE HAS NOT LOST
LAST FINGER IN FIELD MOWER.
OH NO, NO, HE DID.
OH, POOR TATO.
HE CAN NEVER WIN
AT "PAPER, ROCK, SCISSORS."
ALWAYS KNOW
ROCK IS COMING.
-ONE...
-Both: TWO, THREE!
ROCK!
I LIKE HER.
-MOM.
-OHH... MAYABUSHKA.
(normal voice)
I AM GONNA BE HERE
ALL THE TIME NOW,
BABY GIRL.
HOW GREAT IS THAT?
(laughing)
MOM...
YOU CAN'T BE HERE.
DAD, MOM,
YOU'RE EVERYWHERE.
-WE JUST NEED SOME SPACE.
-IT'S LIKE YOU'RE CIRCLING
AROUND US.
I'M SORRY. YOU THINK
WE'RE CIRCLING AROUND YOU?
-YES.
-OH. I SEE.
SO, I GUESS WE'RE
ALL DONE WITH THE PARENTING?
YES, IT SEEMS
WE'RE ALL DONE
WITH THAT PART NOW.
-GOOD JOB, TOPANGA!
-GOOD JOB, COREY!
REMEMBER THAT WHOLE
POTTY-TRAINING THING
THAT WE DID FOR HER?
AND NOW SHE WANTS TO LEAVE?
OH, I LOVED
EVERY MINUTE OF THAT.
GOOD TIMES!
SO, YOU'RE OKAY WITH THIS?
OH YEAH, WE UNDERSTAND.
YOU'RE A GROWNUP.
-YOU KNOW
EVERYTHING THERE IS TO KNOW.
-YUP, YOU'RE READY TO MOVE AWAY.
WELL, I MEAN,
I'D LIKE TO STAY
IN MY OWN BEDROOM.
OKAY. YOU'LL JUST
DROP US A LINE WHEN
YOU GET MARRIED AND HAVE KIDS?
(scoffs)
MOM, I JUST DON'T WANT YOU
TO BE EVERYWHERE.
OKAY. WELL, WHEN YOU NEED US,
WE'LL BE AT HOME.
AND I'LL BE BACK THERE,
STAYING OUT OF YOUR WAY.
-OKAY.
-GOOD.
SO, NOBODY FEELS BAD
ABOUT THIS?
WELL, LET'S SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
SO, YOU ARE HERE NOW?
-I'M HERE NOW.
-GOOD.
READY?
-SO...
-HERE WE ARE.
KINGS.
THE SUN DOESN'T
GO AROUND THE EARTH.
WE'RE THE ONES MOVING.
WE ORBIT THE SUN,
BECAUSE WE NEED IT.
WE NEED ITS LIGHT
AND ITS HEAT,
AND IF IT WASN'T THERE,
WE'D BE DARK AND ALONE.
I WASN'T
IN MRS. SVORSKI'S ORBIT
FOR VERY LONG,
AND I MISSED OUT
ON SOMEONE WONDERFUL.
MY BROTHER KNEW BETTER.
HE WAS HER VERY GOOD FRIEND.
WE THINK THAT WE'RE
THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE,
BUT THE TRUTH IS...
WE NEED TO CIRCLE
THE ONES WE LOVE
FOR AS LONG
AS THEY'RE HERE.
WE NEED TO HOLD THEM CLOSE,
BECAUSE NO MATTER
HOW FAR WE TRAVEL,
THEY ARE THE ONES
WHO HOLD US IN PLACE.
IT'S GRAVITY,
AND WITHOUT IT,
WE WOULD JUST
ALL FLOAT AWAY
FROM EACH OTHER.
WE ARE NOT KINGS AT ALL.
WE ARE JUST...
TINY LITTLE SPECKS.
MY NAME IS RILEY MATTHEWS
FROM GREENWICH VILLAGE,
NEW YORK CITY,
THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA,
THE CONTINENT
OF NORTH AMERICA,
THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE,
THE EARTH,
THE SOLAR SYSTEM,
THE UNIVERSE,
THE MIND OF GOD.
THAT'S FROM  OUR TOWN,
MY FATHER'S FAVORITE PLAY.
"JUST FOR A MOMENT
WE'RE ALL TOGETHER.
"LET'S REALLY LOOK
AT ONE ANOTHER."
GOOD NIGHT,
MRS. SVORSKI.
-GOOD JOB, RILEY.
-I KNOW YOU'RE GONNA
MISS HER, BUDDY.
SHE GAVE ME
HER FLOUR SHAKER.
-THAT'S REALLY NICE.
-(rattles)
WHAT'S INSIDE?
IT'S A NOTE.
MAYBE SHE WROTE YOU A NOTE.
Mrs. Svorski's voice:
IS NOT MY-KRAINIAN BAKERY.
I'M DEAD.
(laughing)
I LOVE YOU GUYS.
(clicks, ringing)
(ringing)
-(beeps)
-HELLO, MR. MATTHEWS.
HEY, MR. FEENY.
-YOU DOING OKAY?
-YES, COREY.
I'M STILL HERE.
GREAT.
THAT'S GREAT.